UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT 
ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE
GAO-25-107604
Report to Congressional Committees
Opportunities to Reduce Fragmentation, 
Overlap, and Duplication and Achieve an 
Additional One Hundred Billion Dollars or More 
in Future Financial Benefits
Over $700 billion in financial benefits 
already achieved by addressing 
actions highlighted in these reports
ANNUAL
REPORT
May 2025
Reissued with update on May 13, 2025
Revised May 13, 2025 to correct the header section on page 38 in Appendix II. The 
corrected section should read: “The Department of Defense should better manage 
fragmentation of nutrition programs and initiatives by establishing department-wide 
strategic goals, performance goals, and performance metrics for nutrition efforts.”
 
  United States Government Accountability Office 
 
  
Highlights 
Highlights of GAO-25-107604, a report to 
congressional committees 
Why GAO Did This Study 
GAO annually reports on federal 
programs, agencies, offices, and 
initiatives—either within departments 
or government-wide—that have 
potentially duplicative goals or 
activities. As part of this work, GAO 
also identifies additional opportunities 
for greater efficiency and effectiveness 
that result in cost savings or enhanced 
revenue collection. 
This report discusses new 
opportunities for achieving billions of 
dollars in potential financial benefits 
and improving the efficiency and 
effectiveness of a wide range of federal 
programs. It also evaluates the status 
of prior matters for congressional 
consideration and recommendations 
for federal agencies related to the 
Duplication and Cost Savings body of 
work. 
In addition, this report provides 
examples of other, still open matters 
and recommendations where further 
implementation steps could yield 
significant financial and other benefits. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Source: GAO.  |  GAO-25-107604 
 
May 2025 
2025 ANNUAL REPORT 
Opportunities to Reduce Fragmentation, Overlap, and 
Duplication and Achieve an Additional One Hundred 
Billion Dollars or More in Future Financial Benefits 
What GAO Found 
GAO identified 148 new matters and recommendations in 43 new topic areas for 
Congress or federal agencies to improve efficiency and effectiveness of 
government. For example: 
• The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and 24 federal agencies 
should implement statutory requirements for annual IT portfolio reviews and 
high-risk IT investment reviews, which could result in one hundred million 
dollars or more in cost savings by reducing duplicative IT investments and 
halting or terminating investments, when appropriate. 
• The Space Development Agency should fully demonstrate its space-based 
laser communications technology in each iterative development phase before 
progressing, potentially saving hundreds of millions of dollars over 10 
years.  
• The Department of Defense should take steps to incorporate data analytics 
into its fraud risk management strategy and improve the usability of fraud 
investigative information to support fraud risk management and potentially 
save one hundred million dollars or more. 
• OMB and General Services Administration should join Congress in taking 
steps to help ensure the Federal Audit Clearinghouse contains quality single 
audit information, which could reduce risk and resolve deficiencies in federal 
award spending by hundreds of millions of dollars per year. 
• The Director of the Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts should better 
manage fragmentation by collaborating with relevant stakeholders when 
updating design standards for constructing federal courthouses, and 
reassess changes made to those standards to potentially avoid cost 
increases of tens of millions of dollars. 
• Congress should clarify the Department of Energy’s waste management 
authority at the Hanford site. Energy should also pause work at a waste 
treatment facility at the site—as it previously did with other types of waste—
until it takes several actions, potentially saving billions of dollars. 
• The Department of Interior could prevent continued productivity losses and 
cost overruns from a failed data system development and improve its 
compliance activities to verify federal oil and gas royalties, potentially 
increasing collections by tens of millions of dollars per year. 
As of March 2025, Congress and agencies had fully addressed 1,460 (71 
percent) of the 2,049 matters and recommendations GAO identified from 2011-
2025 and partially addressed 130 (about 6 percent). This has resulted in financial 
and other benefits such as improved interagency coordination and reduced 
mismanagement, fraud, waste, and abuse.  
 
View GAO-25-107604. For more information, 
contact Jessica Lucas-Judy at 
lucasjudyj@gao.gov or Michelle Sager at 
sagerm@gao.gov.  
 
 
  United States Government Accountability Office 
 
As shown in the figure below, these efforts have cumulatively resulted in about 
$725 billion in financial benefits, an increase of about $57 billion from GAO’s last 
report on this topic. These are rough estimates based on a variety of sources that 
considered different time periods and used different data sources, assumptions, 
and methodologies.  
Total Financial Benefits of $725 Billion Identified in GAO’s 2011-2025 Duplication and Cost 
Savings Annual Reports 
 
 
Further steps are needed to fully address the matters and recommendations 
GAO identified from 2011 to 2025. Of the 589 open matters and 
recommendations, 170 (about 29 percent) have the potential for financial 
benefits. Legislation was introduced in the 118th or 119th Congress to address 27 
(about 33 percent) of the 83 open matters. As of February 2025, the legislation 
had not been enacted.  
GAO estimates that fully addressing the remaining open matters and 
recommendations could yield financial benefits of one hundred billion dollars or 
more and improved governmental services, among other benefits.  
Examples of Open Topic Areas with Potential Financial Benefits 
Topic area and description  
(GAO report number linked) Mission 
Potential financial 
benefits (source of 
estimate) 
*Medicare Payments by Place of Service: Congress could 
realize additional financial benefits if it took steps to direct the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services to equalize payment 
rates between settings for evaluation and management office 
visits and other services that the Secretary deems appropriate. 
(GAO-16-189) 
Health $156.9 billion 
over 10 years 
(Congressional 
Budget Office) 
*Public-Safety Broadband Network: Congress should consider 
reauthorizing FirstNet, including different options for its 
placement, and ensure key statutory and contract 
responsibilities are addressed before current authorities sunset 
in 2027. (GAO-22-104915) 
Information 
Technology 
$15 billion over 
15 yearsa 
(GAO analysis of 
the FirstNet 
Contract) 
*Individual Retirement Accounts: Congress should consider 
revisiting the use of Individual Retirement Accounts (IRA) to 
accumulate large balances and consider ways to improve the 
equity of the existing tax expenditure on IRAs. (GAO-15-16) 
General 
Government 
Ten billion dollars 
or more 
(Joint Committee 
on Taxation and the 
Department of the 
Treasury) 
*Disability and Unemployment Benefits: Congress should 
consider passing legislation to require the Social Security 
Administration to offset Disability Insurance benefits for any 
Unemployment Insurance benefits received in the same period. 
(GAO-14-343SP) 
Income 
Security 
$2.2 billion over 
10 years 
(Office of 
Management and 
Budget) 
Legend:  
* = Legislation is likely to be necessary to fully address all matters or recommendations in this topic 
area. 
Source: GAO.  |  GAO-25-107604 
Note: The potential financial benefits shown in this table represent estimates of amounts GAO or 
others believe could accrue if steps are taken to implement the actions described. The estimates are 
dependent on various factors, such as whether action is taken and how it is taken. Realized financial 
benefits may be less, depending on costs associated with implementing the action, unintended 
consequences, and the effect of controlling for other factors. The individual estimates in this table 
should be compared with caution, as they come from a variety of sources, which consider different 
time periods and use different data sources, assumptions, and methodologies. 
aIf FirstNet sunsets, it is unclear what will happen to the remaining $15 billion in scheduled annual 
payments, which FirstNet currently has authority to collect and reinvest. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page i GAO-25-107604  Fragmentation, Overlap, and Duplication 
Letter  1 
New Opportunities Exist to Improve Efficiency and Effectiveness 
Across the Federal Government 4 
Congress and Federal Agencies Continue to Address Matters and 
Recommendations Identified over the Last 15 Years, Resulting 
in Significant Benefits 8 
Action on Open Matters and Recommendations Could Yield 
Additional Benefits 16 
Appendix I Objectives, Scope, and Methodology 29 
Assessing the Status of Previously Identified Matters and 
Recommendations 31 
Methodologies for Determining Financial Benefits 34 
Appendix II New Topic Areas in Which We Have Identified Fragmentation,  
Overlap, or Duplication 37 
 
Appendix III New Topic Areas in Which We Have Identified Other Cost Savings or 
Revenue Enhancement Opportunities 87 
 
Appendix IV Open Congressional Matters, by Mission 124 
 
Tables 
Table 1: New Fragmentation, Overlap, and Duplication Topic 
Areas  4 
Table 2: New Topic Areas with Cost Savings and Revenue 
Enhancement Opportunities 6 
Table 3: Status of Duplication and Cost Savings Matters and 
Recommendations, as of March 2025 9 
Table 4: Examples of Financial Benefits Resulting from Actions 
Taken by Congress and Federal Agencies, as of March 
2025  12 
Table 5: Examples of Open Topic Areas and Related Potential 
Benefits 24 
Table 6: Examples of Open Topic Areas with Potential Financial 
Benefits of $1 Billion or More 25 
Contents 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page ii GAO-25-107604  Fragmentation, Overlap, and Duplication 
Table 7: Restrictive Licensing Practices that Impacted Cloud 
Computing Costs at Five Selected Agencies 120 
Table 8: Open Congressional Matters in the Agriculture Mission 
Area  125 
Table 9: Open Congressional Matters in the Defense Mission Area 127 
Table 10: Open Congressional Matters in the Economic 
Development Mission Area 128 
Table 11: Open Congressional Matters in the Energy Mission Area 129 
Table 12: Open Congressional Matters in the General 
Government Mission Area 131 
Table 13: Open Congressional Matters in the Health Mission Area 137 
Table 14: Open Congressional Matters in the Homeland Security, 
Law Enforcement, or both Mission Area 139 
Table 15: Open Congressional Matters in the Income Security 
Mission Area 142 
Table 16: Open Congressional Matters in the Information 
Technology Mission Area 143 
Table 17: Open Congressional Matters in the International Affairs 
Mission Area 144 
Table 18: Open Congressional Matters in the Science and 
Environment Mission Area 145 
Table 19: Open Congressional Matters in the Social Services 
Mission Area 146 
Table 20: Open Congressional Matters in the Training, 
Employment, and Education Mission Area 147 
 
Figures 
Figure 1: Definitions of Fragmentation, Overlap, Duplication, Cost 
Savings, and Revenue Enhancement 2 
Figure 2: Status of Duplication and Cost Savings Matters and 
Recommendations, as of March 2025 8 
Figure 3: Total Financial Benefits of $725 Billion Identified in our 
2011—2025 Duplication and Cost Savings Annual 
Reports 10 
Figure 4: Summary of 15 Years of Benefits Achieved by Mission, 
as of March 2025 11 
Figure 5: GAO’s Leading Interagency Collaboration Practices and 
Selected Key Considerations 18 
Figure 6: Number of Open Duplication and Cost Savings 
Recommendations by Agency, as of March 2025 21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page iii GAO-25-107604  Fragmentation, Overlap, and Duplication 
Figure 7: Fiscal Year 2024 Outlays and Number of Open 
Duplication and Cost Savings Recommendations, by 
Agency 23 
Figure 8: Jurisdictions’ Understanding of Whom to Contact to 
Request Assets During Recent Emergencies 61 
Figure 9: Map Showing Overlapping Joint Operation Area 67 
Figure 10: The Three Central Goals of the U.S. National Quantum 
Computing Cybersecurity Strategy 75 
Figure 11: GAO’s Assessment of Housing and Services Resource 
Center Efforts Compared with Leading Practices for 
Interagency Collaboration 82 
Figure 12: Status of Duplication and Cost Savings Congressional 
Matters, as of March 2025 124 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*Cover source: GAO design created from 
redpixel/royyimzy/stillfx/darren415/stock.adobe.com images. 
 
Actions by Congress and federal agencies related to GAO’s Duplication & Cost Savings 
body of work have resulted in over $700 billion in financial benefits. This total relies on 
individual estimates from a variety of sources, which considered different time periods and 
used different data sources, assumptions, and methodologies, and represents a rough 
estimate of financial benefits. 
 
This is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright protection in the 
United States. The published product may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety 
without further permission from GAO. However, because this work may contain 
copyrighted images or other material, permission from the copyright holder may be 
necessary if you wish to reproduce this material separately. 
 
 
 
Page 1 GAO-25-107604  Fragmentation, Overlap, and Duplication 
441 G St. N.W. 
Washington, DC 20548 
May 13, 2025 
Congressional Committees 
Since 2011, we have issued 142 matters for Congress and 1,907 
recommendations for federal agencies to eliminate, reduce, or better 
manage fragmentation, overlap, or duplication or realize financial 
benefits—cost savings or enhanced revenue collection.1  Actions by 
Congress and federal agencies in these areas have resulted in about 
$725 billion in financial benefits. We also estimate one hundred billion 
dollars or more could be saved by fully implementing our remaining open 
matters and recommendations.2  
  
 
1Pub. L. No. 111-139, § 21, 124 Stat. 8, 29 (2010), codified at 31 U.S.C. § 712 note.  
2In calculating our total estimated realized and potential financial benefits, we relied on 
individual estimates from a variety of sources, which considered different time periods and 
used different data sources, assumptions, and methodologies. These totals represent a 
rough estimate of financial benefits. Realized benefits have been rounded to the nearest 
$100 million. Estimated potential financial benefits are subject to increased uncertainty, 
depending on whether, how, and when they are addressed, and are presented using a 
notional statement of magnitude. We previously reported that implementing all our open 
matters and recommendations could produce $106 billion to $208 billion of measurable, 
future financial benefits, according to simulation models we developed that used our 
historical data on realized financial benefits. GAO, Open GAO Recommendations: 
Financial Benefits Could Be Between $106 Billion and $208 Billion, GAO-24-107146 
(Washington, D.C., July 11, 2024).  
Letter 
 
 
 
 
Page 2 GAO-25-107604  Fragmentation, Overlap, and Duplication 
Figure 1 defines the terms we use in this work. 
Figure 1: Definitions of Fragmentation, Overlap, Duplication, Cost Savings, and Revenue Enhancement 
 
 
  

 
 
 
Page 3 GAO-25-107604  Fragmentation, Overlap, and Duplication 
This report identifies 43 new topic areas where a broad range of federal 
agencies could achieve greater efficiency or effectiveness. For each area, 
we suggest matters for Congress and recommendations for federal 
agencies to reduce, eliminate, or better manage fragmentation, overlap, 
or duplication, or achieve other financial benefits. 
In addition to identifying new topic areas, we continue to monitor the 
progress Congress and agencies have made in addressing matters and 
recommendations we previously identified (see sidebar).  
This report is based upon work we previously conducted in accordance 
with generally accepted government auditing standards. See appendix I 
for more information on our scope and methodology. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tracking action on GAO matters 
and recommendations 
GAO’s Duplication and Cost Savings 
website is publicly accessible and allows 
Congress, agencies, and the public to track 
the federal government’s progress in 
addressing the issues we have identified.  
This website includes a downloadable 
spreadsheet containing all matters and 
recommendations related to the work on 
fragmentation, overlap, duplication, cost 
savings, or revenue enhancements.  
The spreadsheet can be filtered by the 
GAO report number, mission, report name, 
implementation status, and implementing 
entities (Congress or federal agencies). The 
spreadsheet additionally notes which 
recommendations are also GAO priority 
recommendations—those 
recommendations GAO believes warrant 
priority attention from the heads of 
departments or agencies. 
Additionally, GAO’s Duplication and Cost 
Savings website provides real-time updates 
on the status of open matters and 
recommendations related to fragmentation, 
overlap, duplication, cost savings, and 
revenue enhancements. 
Source: GAO.  |  GAO-25-107604 

 
 
 
Page 4 GAO-25-107604  Fragmentation, Overlap, and Duplication 
This report presents 148 matters for Congress and recommendations for 
federal agencies across 43 new topic areas.3 Of these 43 new topic 
areas, 25 concern fragmentation, overlap, or duplication in government 
missions and functions (see table 1). Appendix II provides more detailed 
information about these 25 new topic areas. 
 
 
Table 1: New Fragmentation, Overlap, and Duplication Topic Areas  
Mission Topic area Page 
Defense 1. Defense Food Program: The Department of Defense should better manage fragmentation of 
nutrition programs and initiatives by establishing department-wide strategic goals, performance 
goals, and performance metrics for nutrition efforts. 
38 
2. Defense Innovation and Collaboration Efforts: The Department of Defense should further 
collaboration among the entities that support commercial technology adoption to better 
manage fragmentation and establish and use performance information to potentially save 
costs. 
40 
3. Defense Underutilized and Excess Facilities: The Department of Defense could better 
manage fragmentation of its oversight of underutilized and excess facilities by enforcing the 
consistent use of its utilization rate guidance across the military services. 
42 
4. DOD Fraud Risk Management: The Department of Defense should take steps to incorporate 
data analytics into its fraud risk management strategy and improve the usability of fraud 
investigative information to support fraud risk management to improve collaboration and 
potentially save one hundred million dollars or more. 
43 
5. International Military Student Vetting: The Departments of Defense and State should 
improve information sharing and collaboration to better manage fragmentation of vetting 
practices for international military students. 
45 
6. Modular Open Systems Approaches for Weapon Systems: The Departments of the Air 
Force, Army, and Navy should better coordinate modular open systems approaches among 
portfolios of weapon programs, which could result in savings of hundreds of millions of 
dollars. 
47 
7. Navy Amphibious Warfare Fleet: The Department of the Navy should better manage 
fragmentation in decisions that affect the amphibious warfare fleet by working with the Marine 
Corps to address amphibious warfare ship availability. 
49 
General 
Government 
8. Gaps in Federal Statistics on U.S. Territories: The U.S. Chief Statistician should develop a 
coordinated, government-wide approach to address data gaps and better manage fragmented 
federal data collection in the five permanently inhabited U.S. territories. 
51 
 
3In addition to these 148 matters and recommendations, 11 matters and 
recommendations in seven new topic areas were closed-implemented before this report 
was issued. More information on these 159 matters and recommendations is available in 
the downloadable spreadsheet on our Duplication and Cost Savings website, and in 
appendices I, II, and III. 
New Opportunities 
Exist to Improve 
Efficiency and 
Effectiveness Across 
the Federal 
Government 
 
 
 
Page 5 GAO-25-107604  Fragmentation, Overlap, and Duplication 
Mission Topic area Page 
9. U.S. Courthouse Construction: The Director of the Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts 
should better manage fragmentation by collaborating with relevant stakeholders when updating 
design standards for constructing federal courthouses, and reassess changes made to those 
standards to potentially avoid cost increases of tens of millions of dollars. 
53 
Health 10. Federal Mpox Response: The Department of Health and Human Services could better 
manage fragmentation of efforts to assess public health emergency responses by 
implementing a coordinated, department-wide after-action program that includes relevant 
external stakeholders. 
55 
11. Maternal Health Programs: The Health Resources and Services Administration should 
coordinate the performance measures across its three maternal health programs to better 
manage fragmentation and understand the programs’ impact on reducing maternal and infant 
death rates. 
57 
12. Mental Health Programs for Transitioning Service Members: The Department of Veterans 
Affairs-Department of Defense Joint Executive Committee should assess the effectiveness of 
the departments’ programs and processes overall to better manage overlapping efforts to 
facilitate access to mental health services for service members transitioning to civilian life. 
59 
13. Strategic National Stockpile: Federal agencies responsible for the Strategic National 
Stockpile should clearly document their roles and responsibilities to better manage 
fragmentation and help jurisdictions requesting and receiving critical medical supplies during 
public health emergencies. 
61 
Homeland 
Security, Law 
Enforcement or 
both 
14. Counternarcotics Investigations: The Drug Enforcement Administration and Immigration and 
Customs Enforcement could better manage fragmentation in their counternarcotics 
investigations by enhancing their efforts to implement a joint training module. 
63 
15. DHS Federal Research Centers: The Department of Homeland Security should ensure 
proposed research and development projects are reviewed and the results documented for 
potential unnecessary overlap, and update and disseminate to relevant entities its list of 
research and development activities at least quarterly. 
65 
16. DOD Counternarcotics Activities: The Department of Defense should better manage 
fragmentation among the relevant commands by clarifying their roles and responsibilities for 
detecting and monitoring the transport of illicit drugs. 
67 
17. Security of Radioactive Materials: Congress should consider directing the Nuclear 
Regulatory Commission to update its security measures, tracking systems, and license 
verifications of category 3 radioactive materials to help better manage federal agencies’ 
fragmented radiological security efforts. 
69 
Information 
Technology 
18. Federal IT Portfolio Management:  The Office of Management and Budget and 24 federal 
agencies should fully implement statutory requirements for annual IT portfolio reviews and 
high-risk IT investment reviews, which could result in one hundred million dollars or more in 
cost savings by reducing duplicative IT investments and halting or terminating investments, 
when appropriate. 
71 
19. HHS Pandemic Public Health Systems: By identifying and reducing duplicative pandemic 
public health IT systems, the Department of Health and Human Services could achieve cost 
savings. 
73 
20. Quantum Computing Cybersecurity Strategy: The Office of the National Cyber Director 
should lead the coordination of a comprehensive national quantum computing cybersecurity 
strategy to better manage fragmentation and the potential overlap of agency efforts. 
75 
Science and the 
Environment 
21. Managing Textile Waste: Federal entities should establish an interagency mechanism to 
coordinate federal efforts on textile circularity, reducing textile waste, and advancing textile 
recycling in the U.S. to avoid potential overlap, duplication, and fragmentation. 
77 
 
 
 
Page 6 GAO-25-107604  Fragmentation, Overlap, and Duplication 
Mission Topic area Page 
Social Services 22. Charitable Food Assistance: U.S. Department of Agriculture should ensure that two of its 
agencies responsible for food bank delivery coordinate to better manage fragmentation and 
help streamline the lengthy process for resolving delivery issues. 
79 
23. Homelessness Among Older Adults: The Department of Health and Human Services and 
partner agencies involved in the Housing and Services Resource Center should better manage 
fragmentation among homelessness assistance programs by strengthening collaboration to 
help address the housing and health needs of older adults. 
81 
24. Social Services for Older Americans: The Department of Health and Human Services could 
better manage fragmentation of services for older adults by applying leading practices for 
interagency collaboration as it coordinates with other agencies. 
83 
Training, 
Employment, 
and Education 
25. Transition Assistance for At-Risk Service Members: Federal agencies should coordinate to 
better manage the fragmentation among certain transition programs, such as career readiness 
programs, for service members by developing standards for them and assessing their 
effectiveness. 
85 
Source: GAO.  |  GAO-25-107604 
 
We also present 18 new topic areas where Congress or federal agencies 
could take action to reduce the cost of government operations or enhance 
federal revenue collections (see table 2). Appendix III provides more 
detailed information about these 18 new topic areas. 
Table 2: New Topic Areas with Cost Savings and Revenue Enhancement Opportunities  
Mission Topic area  Page 
Defense 26. Columbia Class Submarine: The Department of the Navy should ensure that its quality 
assurance representatives and the prime shipbuilder update their plan for outsourcing 
submarine construction to help avoid delays that can lead to cost increases and the need for 
costly rework. 
88 
27. Digital Engineering Tools for Hypersonic Weapons Development: Applying modern digital 
engineering tools to hypersonic weapon efforts can increase development efficiency which 
may reduce costs by one hundred million dollars or more throughout the product lifecycle. 
90 
28. Navy Constellation Class Frigate Program: The Department of the Navy should take steps 
to complete the frigate program’s functional design before constructing additional ships, which 
could prevent tens of millions of dollars in construction cost increases for future ships. 
92 
29. Navy Cruiser Modernization: The Department of the Navy should implement lessons learned 
from cruiser modernization to potentially save one hundred million dollars or more in future 
surface ship modernization efforts. 
94 
30. Space-Based Laser Communications Technology: The Space Development Agency 
should fully demonstrate its space-based laser communications technology in each iterative 
development phase before progressing, potentially saving hundreds of millions of dollars 
over 10 years. 
96 
31. Special Operations Armed Overwatch Aircraft: The Department of Defense should further 
analyze the number of Armed Overwatch aircraft it requires, which could save tens of 
millions of dollars over 5 years. 
98 
 
 
 
Page 7 GAO-25-107604  Fragmentation, Overlap, and Duplication 
Mission Topic area  Page 
Energy 32. DOE Acquisition Planning: The Department of Energy should take steps to better track 
information on contract award timeliness, which could help reduce costs associated with 
contract delays. 
100 
33. Federal Oil and Gas Royalties: The Department of the Interior should take steps to improve 
its compliance activities to verify federal oil and gas royalties and potentially increase 
collections by tens of millions of dollars per year. 
102 
34. Treatment of Hanford’s High-Level Waste: Congress should clarify the Department of 
Energy’s waste management authority at the Hanford Site and Energy should pause work at a 
waste treatment facility at the site until it takes several actions, potentially saving billions of 
dollars. 
104 
General 
Government 
35. COVID-19 Overpayment Recoveries: The Small Business Administration and Department of 
Labor should expand and document guidance and processes related to COVID-19 
overpayments, which could result in cost savings of one hundred million dollars or more. 
106 
36. Federal Audit Clearinghouse Single Audit Data: The Office of Management and Budget 
and General Services Administration should join Congress in taking steps to help ensure the 
Federal Audit Clearinghouse contains quality single audit information, which could reduce risk 
and resolve deficiencies in federal award spending by hundreds of millions of dollars per 
year. 
108 
37. Sport Fishing and Archery Excise Tax Compliance: Congress and the Internal Revenue 
Service should take action to improve sport fishing and archery excise tax compliance which 
could increase revenue by one million dollars or more per year. 
110 
Information 
Technology 
38. Census Bureau IT Modernization: The Census Bureau should use best practices to develop 
a reliable cost estimate for its enterprise-wide data dissemination program to better manage 
the costs of the program. 
112 
39. DHS Financial Systems Modernization: The Department of Homeland Security should fully 
incorporate key elements of effective independent verification and validation in its systems 
engineering guidance, which could help maximize the value of its investment in independent 
verification and validation of acquisition efforts, such as its financial systems modernization. 
114 
40. Oil and Gas IT System: Improved leadership and oversight at the Department of the Interior 
and Bureau of Land Management could prevent continued productivity losses and cost 
overruns from a failed data system development, resulting in tens of millions of dollars in 
savings over several years. 
116 
41. SBA Certification IT Modernization: The Small Business Administration should ensure that it 
follows schedule and cost estimating leading practices for its IT modernization projects to 
reduce the risk of future schedule or cost overruns, which could lead to cost savings. 
118 
42. Software Licensing Practices: Selected federal agencies implementing cloud computing 
software and services should take action to identify, analyze, and mitigate potential impacts 
from restrictive software licensing practices, which could result in cost savings. 
120 
Training, 
Employment, and 
Education 
43. Head Start Programs Under Interim Management: The Department of Health and Human 
Services should enforce enrollment requirements for Head Start programs that are under 
interim management, which may allow it to recapture ten million dollars or more in grant 
funds. 
122 
Source: GAO.  |  GAO-25-107604 
 
 
 
 
Page 8 GAO-25-107604  Fragmentation, Overlap, and Duplication 
Congress and federal agencies have addressed many of the matters and 
recommendations we have identified, as shown in figure 2 and table 3. As 
of March 2025, Congress and agencies had fully or partially addressed 
1,590 (about 78 percent) of the 2,049 matters and recommendations; of 
these, they had fully addressed 1,460 and partially addressed 130.  
 
 
 
 
Figure 2: Status of Duplication and Cost Savings Matters and Recommendations, as of March 2025 
 
Note: These data include matters and recommendations related to our prior annual reports, from our 
prior reports not previously tracked in this body of work but that have potential or realized financial 
benefits, and those newly identified in this annual report. There are an additional 152 matters and 
recommendations that we closed as no longer valid due to changing circumstances. 
 
 
Congress and 
Federal Agencies 
Continue to Address 
Matters and 
Recommendations 
Identified over the 
Last 15 Years, 
Resulting in 
Significant Benefits 
 
 
 
Page 9 GAO-25-107604  Fragmentation, Overlap, and Duplication 
Table 3: Status of Duplication and Cost Savings Matters and Recommendations, as of March 2025 
Status 
Number of matters 
(percentage)  
Number of recommendations 
(percentage) 
Total 
 (percentage) 
Closed – implemented 59 
(42%) 
1,401  
(73%) 
1,460  
(71%) 
Open – partially addressed 11 
(8%) 
119  
(6%) 
130  
(6%) 
Open – not addressed 72 
(51%) 
387 
(20%) 
459  
(22%) 
Total 142 
(100%) 
1,907  
(100%) 
2,049  
(100%) 
Source: GAO.  |  GAO-25-107604 
Note: Due to rounding, the total percentages may not add up to exactly 100 percent. These data 
include matters and recommendations related to our prior annual reports, from our prior reports not 
previously tracked in this body of work but that have potential or realized financial benefits, and those 
newly identified in this annual report. There are an additional 152 matters and recommendations that 
we closed as no longer valid due to changing circumstances. 
  
 
 
 
Page 10 GAO-25-107604  Fragmentation, Overlap, and Duplication 
As a result of steps Congress and agencies have taken in response to 
our work, we have identified approximately $725 billion in total financial 
benefits, including $57.8 billion identified in this 2025 annual report.4  
About $667.2 billion of the total benefits were identified in our 2011—
2024 annual reports, as shown in figure 3. 
 
Figure 3: Total Financial Benefits of $725 Billion Identified in our 2011—2025 Duplication and Cost Savings Annual Reports 
 
Note: In calculating these totals, we relied on individual estimates from a variety of sources, which 
considered different time periods and used different data sources, assumptions, and methodologies. 
These totals represent a rough estimate of financial benefits and have been rounded to the nearest 
$100 million. The amount identified in the 2011—2024 annual reports has been reduced since our 
last report to better reflect agency implementation costs in one area. 
  
 
4In calculating our total estimated realized and potential financial benefits, we relied on individual 
estimates from a variety of sources, which considered different time periods and used different data 
sources, assumptions, and methodologies. These totals represent a rough estimate of financial 
benefits. Realized benefits have been rounded to the nearest $100 million. 
Actions Taken by 
Congress and Federal 
Agencies Led to Hundreds 
of Billions in Financial 
Benefits 
 
 
 
Page 11 GAO-25-107604  Fragmentation, Overlap, and Duplication 
These benefits have contributed to missions across the federal 
government, as shown in figure 4. 
Figure 4: Summary of 15 Years of Benefits Achieved by Mission, as of March 2025 
 
Notes: These totals rely on individual estimates from a variety of sources, which considered different 
time periods and used different data sources, assumptions, and methodologies, and represent a 
rough estimate of financial benefits that have been rounded to the nearest $1 billion. Other mission 
areas include Economic Development, Information Technology, Income Security, International Affairs, 
Science and the Environment, and Social Services.  
  

 
 
 
Page 12 GAO-25-107604  Fragmentation, Overlap, and Duplication 
Table 4 highlights examples of results achieved over the past 15 years. 
Table 4: Examples of Financial Benefits Resulting from Actions Taken by Congress and Federal Agencies, as of March 2025 
Topic area  
(GAO report number linked) Actions taken Financial benefit 
Medicaid Demonstration 
Waivers  
(GAO-02-817, GAO-08-87, and 
GAO-13-384) 
The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) 
implemented a policy change in May 2016 that will help 
ensure that Medicaid demonstrations are budget neutral to 
the federal government. Additionally, when setting 
demonstration spending limits moving forward, the agency 
is requiring that states' base data reflect recent costs. 
Cost savings of approximately $154.1 
billion in fiscal years 2016 through 
2023, and tens of billions of additional 
savings are possible, according to GAO 
analysis of CMS data. 
Federal Buying Power 
(GAO-17-164 and GAO-21-40) 
The Office of Management and Budget’s (OMB) Category 
Management initiative directed agencies across the federal 
government to buy more like a single enterprise, setting 
agency targets for using category management contracts 
including those it designated as Best-In-Class, beginning in 
fiscal year 2017, and reporting on agency performance 
against those targets beginning in fiscal year 2018.  
Cost savings of approximately $48.8 
billion from fiscal years 2017 through 
2021, according to OMB reporting.  
 
Paycheck Protection 
Program 
(GAO-20-625) 
The Small Business Administration (SBA) implemented an 
oversight plan for its Paycheck Protection Program in 
December 2020, including an automated screening system 
to identify potentially ineligible or fraudulent applicants and 
recipients. SBA applied similar oversight controls to identify 
potentially ineligible or fraudulent applicants to its 
Restaurant Revitalization Fund.   
Cost savings of about $14.9 billion 
from fiscal years 2020 through 2023, 
according to GAO analysis of SBA 
data.a  
Crop Insurance 
(GAO-07-819T, GAO-07-944T, 
GAO-09-445, GAO-17-501, 
GAO-23-106228, and GAO-24-
106086) 
The Department of Agriculture (USDA) annually enters into 
a reinsurance agreement with crop insurance companies 
that establishes the financial terms by which insurance 
companies are compensated. USDA renegotiated an 
agreement with new terms that reduced the compensation 
to the companies, to be consistent with market conditions. 
Cost savings of approximately $9.9 
billion in fiscal years 2016 through 
2023, according to GAO analysis of 
USDA data. 
Delinquent Taxpayers’ 
Passports  
(GAO-11-272) 
Following enactment of the Fixing America’s Surface 
Transportation (FAST) Act in 2015, the Internal Revenue 
Service (IRS) provided information to the Department of 
State about individuals with certain seriously delinquent tax 
debts, which State used to restrict the issuance of 
passports to such individuals.b As a result, many 
delinquent taxpayers were incentivized to resolve their 
liabilities. 
IRS may realize additional financial benefits through 
continued enforcement of the FAST Act, although no 
estimate is available.  
Revenue enhancement of about $8.2 
billion from fiscal years 2018 through 
2022, according to IRS and State. 
 
 
 
Page 13 GAO-25-107604  Fragmentation, Overlap, and Duplication 
Topic area  
(GAO report number linked) Actions taken Financial benefit 
Improper Payments  
(GAO-07-92, GAO-11-318SP, 
GAO-13-227, GAO-22-105715, 
and GAO-23-106556) 
In carrying out the Improper Payments Information Act of 
2002 and its subsequent amendments, and the Payment 
Integrity Information Act of 2019, the Social Security 
Administration and the Department of Veterans Affairs, 
among others, reduced improper overpayments.c  
Additionally, in implementing statutory requirements for 
government-wide financial statement audits, the 
Department of Defense took steps to identify and stop 
improper payments before they are paid.d 
Agencies could realize additional benefits as they annually 
identify and review programs and activities that may be 
susceptible to significant improper payments. 
Cost savings of about $7.9 billion from 
fiscal years 2020 through 2023, 
according to GAO and agency data, and 
billions of additional savings are 
possible, according to GAO. 
DOE’s Treatment of 
Hanford’s Low-Activity 
Waste 
(GAO-22-104365 and GAO-17-
306) 
The Department of Energy (DOE) finalized an agreement 
in April 2024 with the Environmental Protection Agency 
and Washington State that includes plans for DOE to treat 
a portion of Hanford’s low-activity nuclear and hazardous 
waste using a safe, more cost-effective process. 
Cost savings of approximately $7.5 
billion in fiscal year 2024, and tens of 
billions of additional savings are 
possible, according to GAO analysis of 
DOE data. 
Hanford Waste Treatment 
Plant 
(GAO-20-363) 
In May 2024, DOE said that it had no plans to restart 
construction of a plant to prepare radioactive tank waste 
for treatment at the Hanford Site in Washington State and 
would instead keep the facility in stand-by at a cost of $20 
million per year, compared to restarting construction which 
would have cost over $6 billion dollars through 2029. In 
2012, after years of technical challenges, cost overruns, 
and schedule delays, DOE stopped work on the 
pretreatment facility until they reach a final decision about 
the facility and alternative waste pretreatment options. 
DOE could save billions by taking other actions with high-
level and low-activity waste, as described elsewhere in this 
report. 
Cost savings of over $6 billion from 
fiscal years 2022 through 2029, 
according to GAO analysis of DOE 
data. 
Missile Defense 
(GAO-22-105075) 
The Missile Defense Agency signed a memorandum of 
agreement with the Space Development Agency (SDA) in 
August 2022. The agreement assigned responsibility for 
development of operational satellite constellations to SDA, 
avoiding the risk of duplication and overlap arising from 
two agencies developing similar capabilities. They will now 
work together to launch 48 operational satellites in support 
of the Hypersonic and Ballistic Tracking Space Sensor 
program. 
Cost savings of about $3.8 billion from 
fiscal years 2023 through 2029, 
according to GAO analysis of agency 
data. 
 
 
 
Page 14 GAO-25-107604  Fragmentation, Overlap, and Duplication 
Topic area  
(GAO report number linked) Actions taken Financial benefit 
Medicare Payments by Place 
of Service 
(GAO-16-189) 
CMS issued a final rule in 2018 capping payments at the 
physician fee schedule rates for certain hospital outpatient 
clinic visit services furnished by off-campus hospital 
outpatient departments that existed or were under 
construction in 2015.e The rule applied to specific clinical 
visits, where other services would continue to be paid at 
the higher rate. 
Congress could realize additional financial benefits if it took 
steps to direct the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services to equalize payment rates between settings for all 
hospital outpatient departments, regardless of whether 
they are deemed on-campus or off-campus for evaluation 
and management office visits and other services that the 
Secretary deems appropriate. 
Cost savings of about $3.1 billion from 
fiscal years 2019 through 2023, 
according to CMS, and $156.9 billion of 
additional savings could potentially 
accrue over 10 years, according to CBO 
estimates. 
Medicare Advantage 
(GAO-12-51) 
Congress took steps to increase the minimum adjustment 
made for differences in diagnostic coding patterns between 
Medicare Advantage plans and traditional Medicare 
providers, which reduced excess payments by CMS to 
Medicare Advantage plans for beneficiaries’ care.f 
CMS could realize additional financial benefits by 
modifying the methodology for calculating the adjustment 
made for differences in diagnostic coding patterns between 
Medicare Advantage plans and traditional Medicare 
providers. For example, CMS could incorporate more 
recent data, account for all relevant years of coding 
differences and incorporate the effect of coding difference 
trends to better ensure an accurate adjustment in future 
years that may be above the minimum adjustment. 
Cost savings of about $2.5 billion from 
fiscal years 2013 through 2022, 
according to CBO, and tens of billions 
of dollars of additional savings are 
possible, according to the Medicare 
Payment Advisory Commission. 
Source: GAO.  |  GAO-25-107604 
Note: These estimates are from a range of sources, consider different time periods, and use different 
data sources, assumptions, and methodologies. This table includes updates to areas from last year’s 
report that have achieved additional benefits. 
aThis total reflects an increase in financial benefits since our last report as well as a reduction from 
our previous report to better reflect agency implementation costs. 
bPub. L. No. 114-94, § 32101, 129 Stat. 1312, 1729–1733 (2015), codified at 26 U.S.C. §§ 
6103(k)(11), 7345. 
c31 U.S.C. §§ 3351-3357. 
d31 U.S.C. § 3515. 
eMedicare Program: Changes to Hospital Outpatient Prospective Payment and Ambulatory Surgical 
Center Payment Systems and Quality Reporting Programs; 83 Fed. Reg. 58,818 (Nov. 21, 2018). 
fThe Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 required minimum increases in the annual 
adjustment for coding differences starting in 2014 and required CMS to continue making adjustments 
in subsequent years until the agency implements risk adjustment based on diagnostic, cost, and use 
data from Medicare Advantage plan. Pub. L. No. 111-152, § 1102(e), 124 Stat. 1029, 1046.  The 
American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 subsequently increased the statutory minimum for the annual 
adjustment. Pub. L. No. 112-240, § 639, 126 Stat. 2313, 2357 (2013), codified at 42 U.S.C. § 1395w-
23(a)(1)(C)(ii)(III). 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 15 GAO-25-107604  Fragmentation, Overlap, and Duplication 
Implementing our matters and recommendations often result in other 
benefits, such as more effective government through improved 
interagency coordination; improvements in major government programs 
or agencies; reduced mismanagement, fraud, waste, and abuse; and 
increased assurance that programs comply with internal guidance. The 
following examples illustrate some of these types of benefits. 
• Domestic Terrorism Threats (GAO-23-104720). In February 2023, 
we reported that the threat posed by domestic terrorism was on the 
rise, as evidenced by attacks in several U.S. cities over the previous 
10 years. The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)—within the 
Department of Justice—and the Department of Homeland Security 
(DHS) are the main federal entities charged with preventing terrorist 
attacks in the U.S. including those perpetrated by domestic terrorists.  
In 2023, we found that the FBI and DHS’s Office of Intelligence and 
Analysis (I&A) did not report comprehensive domestic terrorism data. 
We also found that FBI and I&A’s efforts to identify and counter 
domestic terrorism threats generally followed GAO’s leading practices 
related to collaboration but continued to face challenges.5 For 
example, FBI and I&A had not consistently assessed the results of 
their collaborative efforts in preventing and addressing domestic 
terrorism; they had only evaluated their respective agencies’ activities. 
We recommended that the FBI and I&A improve collaboration to 
identify and counter domestic terrorism threats to better manage 
fragmentation and facilitate more comprehensive awareness of 
domestic terrorism issues. 
In response, as of March 2024, FBI and I&A implemented one 
recommendation each to address these issues.6 Domestic terrorism 
issue managers and senior leaders have held regular meetings, in 
which ongoing collaborations are evaluated and adjustments to 
processes are made as appropriate. In addition, FBI and I&A 
assigned liaisons to each other's organizations to continually consider 
ways to optimize collaboration between the agencies. Therefore, FBI 
 
5GAO, Government Performance Management: Leading Practices to Enhance 
Interagency Collaboration and Address Crosscutting Challenges, GAO-23-105520 
(Washington, D.C.: May 24, 2023). 
6Additional recommendations in this area remained open as of February 2025. See 
Domestic Terrorism: Further Actions Needed to Strengthen FBI and DHS Collaboration to 
Counter Threats, GAO-23-104720 (Washington, D.C.: Feb. 22, 2023). 
Other Benefits Resulting 
from Actions Taken by 
Congress and Federal 
Agencies 
 
 
 
Page 16 GAO-25-107604  Fragmentation, Overlap, and Duplication 
and I&A are better positioned to work together to identify and counter 
domestic threats. 
• DOD Predictive Maintenance (GAO-23-105556). DOD is continually 
challenged to provide its warfighters with battle-ready ground combat 
systems, ships, submarines, and aircraft. In 2022, we reported that 
DOD was spending nearly $90 billion per year on weapon systems 
maintenance. To improve weapon system availability and military 
readiness, DOD is implementing predictive maintenance. Predictive 
maintenance relies on personnel to use condition-monitoring 
technology and data analytics to schedule maintenance based on 
evidence of need. If implemented correctly, predictive maintenance 
could reform the military services’ approach to maintaining weapon 
systems by reducing unplanned and unneeded maintenance costs 
and reducing maintenance delays. 
In December 2022, we found that the military services had made 
limited progress implementing predictive maintenance, in part due to 
fragmented and unsuitable governance structures. In 2022, we 
recommended that the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, and Air Force 
respectively designate a single entity with sufficient authority and 
resources necessary to support the implementation of predictive 
maintenance. 
In response, by January 2025, the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, and Air 
Force had each designated an entity with the authority, staffing, and 
funding necessary to support predictive maintenance. As a result, 
each of these services is better positioned to manage fragmentation 
and determine how, when, and where to adopt predictive 
maintenance. 
Congress and federal agencies have implemented many of the 2,049 
matters and recommendations we have identified since 2011. However, 
further steps are needed to fully address the 589 matters and 
recommendations that remain open. We estimate that one hundred billion 
dollars or more in additional financial benefits could be realized should 
Congress and agencies fully address these.7 In addition, other 
improvements could be achieved. 
 
7In calculating this estimate, we relied on individual estimates from a variety of sources, 
which considered different time periods and used different data sources, assumptions, 
and methodologies. These estimates are subject to increased uncertainty, depending on 
whether, how, and when they are addressed. This amount represents a rough estimate of 
financial benefits. 
Action on Open 
Matters and 
Recommendations 
Could Yield Additional 
Benefits 
 
 
 
Page 17 GAO-25-107604  Fragmentation, Overlap, and Duplication 
Effective collaboration across federal agencies could help address many 
issues identified in this report. We have made recommendations to 
Congress and OMB that could strengthen interagency collaboration and 
help identify and reduce or better manage fragmentation, overlap, and 
duplication in federal programs. 
• Interagency working groups. Interagency groups can be a tool for 
forging successful partnerships. However, a lack of or ineffective 
collaboration can stall progress. As shown in figure 5 below, we have 
developed eight leading practices for agencies to effectively work 
together on shared goals.8 In February 2025, we recommended that 
Congress consider requiring that interagency groups formed to 
address high-risk and other key challenges develop and implement a 
collaboration plan incorporating these leading interagency 
collaboration practices.9 
 
8GAO, Government Performance Management: Leading Practices to Enhance 
Interagency Collaboration and Address Crosscutting Challenges, GAO-23-105520 
(Washington, D.C., May 24, 2023).  
9GAO, High-Risk Series: Heightened Attention Could Save Billions More and Improve 
Government Efficiency and Effectiveness, GAO-25-107743 (Washington, D.C., Feb. 25, 
2025). 
 
 
 
Page 18 GAO-25-107604  Fragmentation, Overlap, and Duplication 
Figure 5: GAO’s Leading Interagency Collaboration Practices and Selected Key 
Considerations 
 
 
• Federal program inventory. A comprehensive inventory of 
programs—with related funding and performance information—would 
be a critical tool to help decision-makers better identify and manage 

 
 
 
Page 19 GAO-25-107604  Fragmentation, Overlap, and Duplication 
fragmentation, overlap, and duplication across the federal 
government. Despite legal requirements since 2011, the federal 
government has not yet fully developed such an inventory.10 However, 
OMB has made significant progress in recent years.11 For example, in 
January 2025, OMB updated and expanded its federal program 
inventory website, which now provides spending and other information 
for over 2,600 federal programs. GAO’s initial observations show that 
OMB added two types of federal programs and related information 
beyond what was previously provided.12  
However, the inventory does not yet include all federal programs, 
such as acquisitions, defense, or foreign assistance programs. It also 
does not provide all required information, such as each program’s 
contributions to its agency’s mission and goals.13 In September 2024, 
we recommended that OMB articulate plans for how and when it will 
fully implement a comprehensive program inventory.14   
 
10See 31 U.S.C. § 1122. 
11In September 2024, we assessed the initial version of the federal program inventory 
website that OMB launched in February 2024. We found that it provided information about 
nearly 2,400 federal financial assistance programs—grants, loans, scholarships, 
insurance, and other types of assistance awards to, among others, state and local 
governments, the private sector, and individuals from the general public. For additional 
information, see GAO, Federal Programs: OMB Needs a Structure to Govern and a Plan 
to Develop a Comprehensive Inventory, GAO-24-107656, (Washington, D.C.: Sep. 25, 
2024). 
12The two additional types of programs are tax expenditures and interest on the public 
debt. For financial assistance programs, the site added information about major 
regulations and award results. 
13We expect to publish a report in fall 2025 more fully assessing the January 2025 version 
of the federal program inventory.  
14GAO-24-107656. OMB generally agreed with this recommendation. As of March 2025, 
OMB informed us that it had no update on its implementation of this recommendation. 
OMB also has not yet addressed 10 additional recommendations related to fully 
implementing the inventory and ensuring it provides useful information. For more 
information, see GAO, Priority Recommendations: Office of Management and Budget, 
GAO-24-107364, (Washington, D.C.: Aug. 9, 2024). 